Race: Nomads and Dervishes
Description: Some of the human people roaming the deserts are called "Blue Knights of the Desert" by the other people of Tarmellion after their blue scarves and noble and proud gait. They call themselves "Nomads" after their lifestyle, which goes to show how pragmatic they are. The nomads raise their herds on the fringes of the desert, mostly camels because these animals are adapted to desert life best, but also horses and any other animal that can be caught and tamed or bred. The crème de la crème of the Nomad society constitutes the not so secret Order of the Dervishes. Those are the enlightened people that can live in the Deep Erg, where there is no waterhole for miles around and noon temperatures rise up to 65° C in the shadow with the small drawback that there is no shadow to be found. Dervishes usually are enlightened enough to live with the other nomads in their oases, but they CAN go into the desert and survive.
Race: Clansmen and Highlanders
Description: Clansmen inhabit the mountaineous regions of Tarmellion and are normally not very tall but very muscular. They dress very oddly: They don't wear trousers but kilts with tartans that tell everybody what clan the wearer belongs to. These clans are led by Clan chiefs who have earned the right to call themselves highlander. To become an highlander a clansman must be able to throw the trunk of a tree at least 20 feet, to down a full stein of beer in one go, to hold their drink after two bottles of whiskey and naturally after defeating a worthy oponent in single combat. That has earned them a bad reputation as a belligerent people that often fights against each other. They stop their internal quarrels whenever they can find a common enemy, however. Sometimes they ally with other races but their undying loyalty belongs only to their own clan. Every clansman and Highlander chief is prepared to fight and die for his clan's cause. There is also the very popular castle building competition in the highlands. The highlanders like to have castles built by their clansmen. Any neighbouring clan will regard a newly finished castle as an invitation to test its strength and will try their best to demolish it as fast as possible. That's why the highlands are full of romantic ruins. 
Race: Ffolk
Description: Among the first humans to come into the world after the age of the fruit-bat were the Folk. They settled in the forests and mystforests. Well, in those times 75% of the world were either forest or mystforest and the rest was water, so no real option to settle there, was there?
Time wore on, things happened, but nothing much changed with the Folk. Up to date they still live in small hamlets interspersed in what´s left of the forests and mystforests of this world, abiding by old laws, speaking an old language, being friends with an old people (see: Elves) and distilling the darn best poitin of three worlds.
Race: Lizardmen and Cajun Folk
Description: The humans called Cajuns live in small settlements in the salt swamps on the coast and the "sweet" swamps inland. They are so busy making a living out of this wet land where nothing much can be made to grow, that they don´t have much contact with the rest of the so-called civilized world. Up to now none of the big empires of this beautiful world bothered to subjugate them, so the Cajun folks think themselves invincible. Since their diet is based on the little food found there it is in danger of getting monotonous, they turned necessity into virtue and developed the largest compendium of recipes of Tarmellion.<br>The Lizardmen are an intelligent bipedal reptilian species living in a kind of social symbiosis with the Cajuns. They measure approx 6 to 8 feet from nosetip to tail and have very strong legs and relatively small and weak arms. They have very agile hands with three long fingers and one slightly shorter opposable "thumb", enabling them to handle tools very delicately but not to operate heavy weaponry. The tail is necessary to balance the heavy trunk when walking: a Lizardman without his tail is incapacitated. They can move very swiftly and silently, in their own environment they can blend in very well and get almost indetectable. Their scales usually appear a greenish brown, but in the right lighting they shimmer in all colours of the rainbow. Unfortunately they cannot swim.
Race: Halfings and Lowlanders
Description: Remember every dull cliché you ever heard about halfings? Small stocky chaps, insatiable appetite, fondness for bright colours (combining them in a way no sensible guy ever would), no shoes, hairy feet, languid temper. Well: It´s true.<br>The Lowlanders live in the moderate climate of the Plains and hilly regions of Tarmellion. Like everybody that wants to appear a little more important than he actually is, the Lowlanders like to be "above" other people. So they developed a strong preference for movement on horseback, refining all skills necessary to breed, train and ride horses. A lot of the area that the Lowlanders control is inhabited by Halflings, making the Lowlanders´ "aboveness" even more pointed.
Race: Halfelves and Elves
Description: The Elves are the oldest people on and off Tarmellion. They are a tall slender race with pointed ears and a light, sometimes almost transparent complexion; albinism is common among aristocratic elven families of pure blood. So called Halfelves with a little human blood mingled in are a little less ethereal but a lot healthier genetically. Age is a topic both Elves and Halfelves find it rude to discuss, but if you get lucky enough to get one drunk you might hear some historically very enlightening first-hand accounts of the time BEFORE the age of the fruit-bat. In those times are the roots of the eternal enmity between Elves and Drow, and it would take at least two more ages to nullify it.
Race: Dwarves
Description: In Minehome under the Mountain resides the Thane of Thanes of the Dwarven people, ruling his kind with a small but nevertheless iron fist. Dwarves are relatively small, in fact VERY small in relation to their weight (80% of the weight and 45% of the height of an average human!) which is the explanation for one of their most prominent traits: they hate large bodies of water because they´re virtually incapable of swimming without artificial aids. There´s one thing they hate even more than that: that´s smartasses pointing out to them how small they are, so we better stop here.<br>Dwarves as a rule are obsessed with the mechanics of things, they want to find out HOW and WHY things work and from there go on to make them work BETTER. Esoteric hocuspocus with incantations and finger-wiggling are a laughing matter to them, but something as earthy and straightforward as a rune carved into a sword to make it work better appeals to them.
Race: Orcs and Uruks
Description: Orcs and their larger fiercer brethren the Uruks live in the mountains of Tarmellion. The race is divided into numerous clans with Uruks as chiefs and orcs as ordinary clansfolk. Orcs and Uruks are mainly warriors. They are relentless fighters who are only satisfied when the battle is won and has been fought good. The other professions are held in relatively low esteem, except for smithing: Orcs and Uruks always admire a beautifully crafted weapon. (Almost as much as what it can do to their enemies.) However, Uruks are capable miners, quarriers and ranchers. Most "evil" nations like to have orcish troops as they fight as much for their own fun as for the money they get from their employers.
Race: Buccaneers
Description: Like all sensible sea-faring people Buccaneers tend to live near the coast: it makes getting your ship afloat that much easier. For the same reason (floating ships) they like forests near their dwellings They build good and fast ships, being experts in all skills necessary for this task, and use them to race other people at sea. Rumour has it that oftentimes the weather changes miracolously in favour of the pursuing Buccaneer ship. When they have won a race, they usually explain to the crew of the losing ship that they have also won their cargo; discussions on this matter tend to get a little violent, but that´s nothing personal, it´s just Buccaneers for you. They have a kind of central government all Buccaneers tithe to consisting of a man called "The Admiral". He lives in BuccDen, a large city inhabited by Buccaneers on the island of Tortuga.
Race: Vikings
Description: The Vikings roam the seas of Tarmellion in their slender longboats, looking for adventure, always seeking new frontiers and market places for their goods. They are very proud and never avoid a fight. A deal struck with a viking when sealed by a pressing of the thumbs as it is customary with them is never broken, but it pays to listen closely to the wording. As in all other aspects of life, Vikings love their independence politically as well. Their government consists of the Council of Captains, the president of the Council is the nominal leader of the Vikings, but a Viking Captain at sea outside the three league girdle of Vyk has unlimited power over his crew. In times of war the Council issues Letters of Marque to its captains, unfortunately some captains don´t abstain from this profitable source of extra-income during peacetime.
Race: Sandlings
Description: The human people called the Sandlings live on the fringes of the desert, raising their large horse herds as a nomadic people. Life is meagre, often forcing them to eat sand to quieten the rumble of their stomachs, hence the name. The cause for the rumbling is of course famine, but the reason to eat sand is so that the rumbling won´t give them away whilst advancing on their unsuspecting neighbours to get THEIR food. Fights often erupt over waterholes and pastures. Feuds over who breeds the best horses can go on for generations. Sandling horses are small, strong, fast and of incredible endurance, their riders fight both on and off their horses.
Race: Ogres
Description: The darker and creepier parts of the forests of the world tend to be inhabited (beings less inclined towards political correctness might say "infested") by Ogres. Telling Ogre males and females apart is easy: the males are large, fierce fighters, cunning in devising their tactics, in the small breaks between fights often caring about the small clearings in wich they grow the herbs for their ointments to relieve the wounds sustained in battle. Ogre females are a little smaller, but a lot fiercer and meaner, mostly found in the first line during battle.
Race: Serpent People
Description: The human people called the Serpent People lives in the swamps of the world. They worship the snake god Ka, their leaders and priests striving to become as much snakelike as possible. Serpent leaders shave all their body hair, file their canines as pointy as possible and take years of diligent training to move at the same time silent and swift. Their obsession is with venoms and antidotes of all sorts and kinds, making them both excellent healers and formidable assassins. 
Race: Republicans
Description: Most of the Republican people live in the city of Pel`Hash in the province of Pelisham, but small exclaves of them can be found practically anywhere. They devised a really cunning system of government just to get themselves the pleasure of finding ways of tax evasion. Pleasure (and sometimes pain) is in fact a big topic in republican everyday life. Some historians say, they have reached a state of decadence high enough to have granted revolution and chaos years ago, but somehow the whole affair just keeps moving on its own momentum. 
Race: Amazons
Description: The human people called Amazons are forest dwellers. They prefer the lighter and more open spaces of the woods. Two facts make them legendary: a) the way they forge steel into acute weapons and beautiful ornaments, most of the time both in one. b) the fact that there are only female Amazons. Explorers trying to bring up the matter of reproduction in their research are liable to find out a lot more about Amazon weaponry than they expected to. The Amazons are organized like an army on the move, military rank an indicator for social situation, a commission as officer a prerequsite for being a noble. At this point in time the Amazon Commmander in Chief is Lady Margaret of Grantham and Finchley.
Race: Duergars
Description: The Duergar are a small, stocky people of heavy build living in the grottoes, chambers, mines and caverns below Tarmellion. They delve for all kinds of metals and minerals, processing them into all kinds of useful things such as arms, armour, torturing implements etc. pp. They are infamous for their manners, their greed for gold is proverbial. They closely cooperate with the Drow, a fact that doesn´t make them a favourite dinner guest at the tables of most other races.
Race: Barbarians
Description: Barbarians can be found in the barren tundra as well as in the valleys of remote hills, in short: Where other humans don't want to live. But they are fierce defenders of what little they have. Many invaders (and neighbouring farmers) were terminally surprised by their belligerent behaviour and by their bravery in battle. Warriors enjoy a special reputation among Barbarians and it is considered a great honour to fight bravely and to die in a brave fight. Of course barbarians honour brave resistance, too, but that won't stop them from slaughtering the defender (and give him an honourable funeral afterwards). Barbarians usually live in small tribes or clans with a Chief as head of "government". Sometimes a young and promising Barbarian leaves his tribe to explore the fabulous big cities far away where the streets are paved with gold and unlimited possibilities.<br>Barbarians are expert warriors and hunters. They are also good smiths and animal trainers. Some of their leaders are brought up by the village shaman and are taught spiritual magic. These shamans worship "The Mother", who nurtures them on her body.
Race: Black Keep Leaders and Followers
Description: Black Keep people inhabit plains and lakes on the surface of Tarmellion, like their counterparts, the Imperials. They love to crush their enemies with their well organized armies, which are often called "Ironsides" ("Only a dead enemy is a good enemy") and they rule through suppression of their beaten enemies. Their leader is called Lord Protector and anyone who is bold or daft enough to utter any dissident views will get into trouble with the Lord Protector's secret police soon.<br>Black Keep Leaders are expert warriors, builders (one of a Black Keep Leader's favourite pastime: have a castle built (with a dungeon, if possible)), farmers and ranchers. Some Black Keep Leaders become black priests and study the dark art of necromancy. Their god is called Ardvark and naturally is a god of death.
Race: Darkmen
Description: Darkmen are humans who have adapted to the dark underground surroundings. They live in underforests, chambers, mines, grottoes and caverns. The typical Darkman communities are monarchies, with lots of aristocracy from kings and dukes down to measly knights. Darkmen are skilled riders and expert animal trainers. They have enormous herb lore knowledge and are able ranchers.<br>Some of their leaders become priests of Cha'ar'lee, the goddess of ecstasy. 
Race: Drow
Description: Yes, face it, boys: Drow leaders are all women. Drows live in a matriarchate with the High Priestess as head of government. The Drow women are very powerful - and they long for even more power. Their pact with evilness enables them to summon demons. But they have to pay a price for it: their souls. Drows try to enslave every "inferior" race, and in fact they consider every other race inferior. But no elf would ever be enslaved by a drow: elves will be killed on sight because over the ages, drow have developed a special hatred towards their elven cousins.<br>Drow are expert riders, builders and tacticians. They move soundlessly through the dark caverns, noticing every move with their darkness-adapted eyes. First thing most people will notice about a nearby drow will be an arrow sticking out of their body.<br>The goddess of the drow is called Lucyfear, the goddess of pain. 
Race: Gnolls and Trolls
Description: Gnolls and Trolls live on the surface of Tarmellion. They live a secluded live in hills and tundras. Gnolls are stocky and both Gnolls and the taller and more muscular Trolls have abundant body hair, not to say, fur. Both races are not necessarily mixed. Whereas Trolls prefer to live in small family clans, Gnolls live in bigger tribes. It is possible to encounter a large Gnoll tribe directly next to a little Troll settlement, both having their separate chiefs. When together, Trolls rule over Gnolls. Both are warriors and hunters. Trolls are good smiths and miners.<br>Only Trolls can learn magic. They have priests of the Goddess Ba-oun-Tee, a goddess of the hunt, which is also worshipped by the gnolls.
Race: Gnomes
Description: Gnomes are a very interesting people. They are smaller and slighter-built than dwarves and live in the underforests, chambers, caverns and grottoes of Tarmellion. Gnomes like their freedom and seldom tolerate authorities. They prefer some sort of direct democracy with very frequent elections. In fact, voters are called to the polls for every important decision, sometimes twice a day. Most gnomes are members of one - or more - trade unions. Gnomes like to experiment a lot, generally creating a lot of chaos. They love to invent things just for the sake of invention, regardless of the fact that most of their very pretty and completely weird invention are completely useless.<br>Of course, gnomes are good with tools; they are expert builders, although their buildings look distinctively gnomish (i. e. weird) and quarrymen. They can work wood and stone alike. Furthermore, gnomes are one of the underworld's few seafaring peoples.<br>Gnome mages are either fire or ice sorcerers.
Race: Goblins and Hobgoblins
Description: Goblins and Hobgoblins can be found in all surface and underdeep terrains, but they do not usually live together in one settlement. Hobgoblins live in small family clans and try to avoid other races. Goblins prefer bigger tribes. When they do mix, Hobgoblins tend to assume some sort of leadership or simply enslave goblin tribes, but goblins make easy slaves for many of the "evil" races. If not enslaved, goblins often sell their labour or fighting force to anybody who is prepared to pay. Hobgoblins and Goblins don't have a specific form of government but imitate others, human or non human, without fully understanding what they are doing.<br>Goblins are quite good farmers and ranchers. Hobgoblins are rather able fighters and are able to learn a crude form of force magic, while Goblins are afraid of magic.
Race: Headhunters
Description: Headhunters live in the jungles of Tarmellion and build huts out of leaves and wood. They like to cut off the heads of dead enemies, dry and shrink them and decorate their huts with the heads as a sign of their combat abilities.<br>Headhunters don't like to wear metal armour. As jungle dwellers they are used to wearing loincloths. Their shamen rule both their lifes and afterlifes. These have mastered the art of becoming virtually invisible and finding hidden things. Their god is called Andar-Shun, a god of the hunt that revels in the trophies gotten in his name.
Race: Humans
Description: There are many kinds of human beings in Tarmellion. Most of them belong to a specific culture, have special abilities and live in specific places. The people we simply call "Humans" don't. They are generalists and may be influenced by a certain culture, way of living or form of government but are not really part of it. They can be found in all terrains, on the surface as well as in the underworld. They do have certain agricultural skills but even their leaders can not be called experts in any skill. They are quite able in defending themselves and their farmers and ranchers however. Some human leaders practise a crude form of sorcery (low level Force magic).
Race: Imperials
Description: Members of the Empire prefer plains and lakes on the surface of Tarmellion where their imperial subjects can practise their farming and ranching skills. Imperials enjoy the security and shelter of the biggest civilisation of Tarmellion. Imperials are lead by one hereditary Emperor but there are some cut off colonies where Imperials and perhaps a Governor can be found. The peace-loving Imperials normally try to enlarge their empire by means of trade and building activities and through alliances with smaller civilizations. However, their legions can be quite persuasive in case there's an unwilling prospective ally. Imperial Leaders are master tacticians and many of them have perfected their combat skills in the Imperial Legions, but they are also the best builders on the surface of Tarmellion, apart from being expert farmers and ranchers. Even the normal populace are quite good in all skills concerned with farming, ranching and stock-breeding.<br>Some Imperial leaders have delved into the secret knowledge of the magical gate system that spans Tarmellion.
Race: Minotaurs
Description: Minotaurs have human bodies but a bull's head. With their big eyes they can see well in the darkness of their underdeep surroundings. They settle in deepforests, chambers, mines, grottoes and caverns.<br>Minotaurs live in a monarchy with detailed aristocratic structures. They are skilled healers, animal trainers and monster tamers, but they also are excellent fighters and they can move amazingly silent in the dark caverns.<br>For "bad" characters, minotaurs get on amazingly well with the "good" side. Their priests worship Loempreur, the goddess of glory.
Race: Tribesmen
Description: Tribesmen live in little villages in the jungles of Tarmellion. They build little huts out of wood and leaves. The Tribesmen chieftains are either elected or hereditary. Some Tribesmen have left the jungle and have gone to the big cities, either as woodworkers or healers or to find fame and fortune as adventurers in the jungle of the city. They are specialized in healing, hunting and animal training and are skilled crossbowmen. Tribesmen are not used to heavy armour as many of their people only wear loincloths in everyday live.<br>Tribesman leaders are expert illusionists and their priests have also perfected the art of Inquisition. The demanding god worshipped by them is named Torc, the Watcher.
